File structure by category theory really proved out. 

It promises every file only considers either a single data structure or a homset between them, and every folder considers only a single namespace that corresponds to a single mathematical category. A category diagram is linked to in the README.md of the folder for a category. 

The only exception to the rule is where the homset maps to a primitive data type, or where there is a compelling reason to privitize attributes. In either case, the homset is then represented as methods within the object itself. 

Dependencies can be easily reasoned with. If a change is made to an interface, the footprint of that change can be easily predicted, and the file overview for the commit is easier to interpret. Functionality can be quickly navigated to. Namespaces boundaries are well defined mathematically. File boundaries are well defined mathematically. Beautiful category diagrams can be trivially constructed with online editors and saved in nonproprietary formats, and can be linked to in the README.md to give a visual understanding of the folder structure and project architecture at high level. Combined with localizing unit tests, it's easy to build up tests incrementally, one homset at a time. Test coverage can be easily reasoned with. You can easily see at a glance from a file navigator which functionality has been covered by unit tests, and how far along the project is. Functionality that is not properly tested can be simply avoided when writing `#include`s and the compilation will still be trusted to work. 