**field** A field is an abstract concept that can be thought of as a map that has a value for every point in space. It can be approximated using a **raster**. The values stored may be numbers ("scalar field"), vectors ("vector field") or something else. 

**grid** A grid is a collection of interconnected grid cells that are intended to store values in a **raster**. It may be represented by an underlying **mesh** in which grid cells are represented by vertices, or there may be a more complex relationship, where a vertex in a mesh corresponds to several grid cells (see `LayeredGrid` for an example). A grid caches additional attributes that may be used when performing operations on rasters. These additional attributes are derived from vertices and faces. Another term for it may be a "mesh cache"

**mesh** A mesh is a collection of interconnected vertices. It is a tuple of vertices and faces. Vertices are stored as vec3s representing positions in a 3d cartesian coordinate system. Faces are stored as uvec3s representing the indices of vertices that are interconnected as a face within the mesh. A mesh is a simple data structure. It does not contain any additional attributes that are derived from vertices and faces. This is a job for **grid**

**raster** A raster is a collection of values that map to cells on a **grid**. It is an approximation of a mathematical **field**. A raster is stored using a simple std::vector wrapped in a `tmany` object. This is done to promote code reuse by avoiding unecessary data type conversion, and also to achieve polymorphism when using the Grid class. The values stored in the rasters may be numbers ("scalar raster"), vectors ("vector raster") or something else. 
